BYLAWS

Article I. Name
The name of this organization shall be the Democratic Socialists of America, a not-for-profit corporation.

Article II. Purpose
We are socialists because we reject an economic order based on private profit, alienated labor, gross inequalities of wealth and power, discrimination based on race, sex, sexual orientation, gender expression, disability status, age, religion, and national origin, and brutality and violence in defense of the status quo. We are socialists because we share a vision of a humane social order based on popular control of resources and production, economic planning, equitable distribution, feminism, racial equality and non-oppressive relationships. We are socialists because we are developing a concrete strategy for achieving that vision, for building a majority movement that will make democratic socialism a reality in America. We believe that such a strategy must acknowledge the class structure of American society and that this class structure means that there is a basic conflict of interest between those sectors with enormous economic power and the vast majority of the population.

Article III. Members
Section 1.
Membership shall be open to every person who subscribes to the principles of the organization.

Section 2.
Applicants for membership in the organization shall agree with the principles of the organization and pay dues.

Section 3.
Every applicant for membership shall sign an application, the contents of which shall be prescribed by the Bylaws. Application for membership shall be made to the Local or National Organization. Members are in good standing provided that they pay annual dues as prescribed in the Bylaws.

Section 4.
Applicants who have been accepted by the Local organization shall, upon receipt of dues and approval of same, automatically become members of the National Organization. Applicants who have been accepted by the National Organization shall, unless otherwise requested by the applicant, become members of the Local organization in the area in which they reside. Members of the National Organization who are not members of a Local organization shall be members-at-large.

Section 5.
Members will receive the organizational outreach publication. Members are encouraged to participate in political activities and education. New members will receive a membership card, and renewing members shall receive such a card upon request. Members will receive information on National policy from the National Office. A member is in good standing only if his/her payment of dues is current. Only members in good standing are eligible to hold office in the organization. Membership in the organization may be maintained by persons who are up to one year arrears in dues. Such members may cure their arrearage and place themselves in good standing by paying their dues.

Section 6.
Members may be expelled by either the National or Local organization. For a member to be expelled nationally, a two-thirds vote of the National Political Committee shall be necessary. Members can be expelled if they are found to be in substantial disagreement with the principles or policies of the organization or if they consistently engage in undemocratic, disruptive behavior or if they are under the discipline of any self-defined democratic-centralist organization. Members facing expulsion must receive written notice of charges against them and must be given the opportunity to be heard before the NPC or a subcommittee thereof, appointed for the purpose of considering expulsion. Decisions on expulsion by either the Local or National Organization may be appealed to the National Convention.

Section 7.
There shall be yearly dues, the amount of which shall be determined by the NPC prior to the commencement of each annual dues cycle.

Article IV. Dues
Section 1.
Annual dues for membership shall be determined by the NPC prior to the commencement of each annual dues cycle.

Section 2.
Dues may be reduced or waived upon application by a member showing just cause for such reduction or waiver. Just cause shall include low-income and/or large number of dependents.

Section 3.
Members may become sustainers of the organization nationally by paying dues in excess of regular dues. A National pledge system may be set up whereby members can pledge to make regular donations in excess of National dues on a monthly, quarterly or other basis.

Section 4.
The NPC shall establish a "low-income" category of dues. Members paying low-income dues shall have full membership rights.

Section 5.
Locals may set up pledge systems for their members, whereby members can pledge to make regular donations to the Local in excess of National dues on a monthly, quarterly or other basis.

Section 6.
The National Convention, or should it not choose to act on this matter, the NPC, shall determine procedures for the collection of dues and contributions and the sharing of same between the Local and National Organizations.
