BYLAWS

Section 4.
The NPC may appoint committees to supervise specific work; these shall report to the NPC. They will include:

A Finance and Budget Committee which will regularly review with the Director(s) the financial situation of the organization. It will prepare an annual budget; such preparation may be delegated to staff persons in consultation with the chair of the committee. It will direct a fund-raising program. The Secretary-Treasurer shall serve as a member or an ex officio member of the committee.
A Personnel Committee which will periodically review staff performance, and fulfill other responsibilities assigned by the NPC.
Editorial Boards for the general publications of the organization which will supervise and edit these publications.
At the first meeting following their appointment, NPC committees shall elect from among their number a chair who shall be responsible for the organization of the committee, that is, for calling meetings, for notifying members of the meetings, for preparing agendas, for producing and distributing minutes to members, and for informing the NPC of the committee’s work.
Section 5.
The NPC will meet in varying areas of the country as is financially feasible.

Section 6.
Election of at-large members of the NPC shall take place at the National Convention under procedures set forth by the Nominating/Personnel Committee except that preferential voting will be used to elect at-large members of the NPC.

Article XI. Commissions
Section 1.
Commissions may be chartered by the NPC upon a motion by a member of the NPC or by petition of 10 members of the organization. Commissions shall have responsibility for proposing and implementing organizational programs within an area defined by the motion or petition. Membership and structure of Commissions shall be included in the authorizing motion.

Section 2.
Commissions shall function within guidelines developed by the NPC and shall be subject to the regular review of the SC and NPC.

Section 3.
Chairs of Commissions must be approved by the NPC.

Article XII. Publications
Section 1.
There shall be two general and regular publications of the organization. These shall be an outreach publication and a discussion bulletin. Members shall receive the outreach publication and may receive the discussion bulletin for a fee above dues set by the NPC, which fee shall be lower for members paying low-income dues set by the NPC than for members paying regular dues. Subscriptions may be available to non-members for a fee set by the NPC. Commissions may publish other bulletins as approved by the NPC. Other literature, including pamphlets and brochures, may be published as directed by the NPC.

Section 2.
The NPC, in consultation with the Managing Editor and the Editorial Board, may appoint one or more editors-in-chief of the general outreach publication. The NPC will be responsible for the editorial supervision of all publications. Editorial responsibility for the general outreach publication and the discussion bulletin shall be determined by the NPC as described in Article X, Section 3 of the Bylaws.

Section 3.
Funding for publications shall be provided in the organizational budget.

Article XIII. Polls
Polls of the members on specific issues may be held upon petition of one-half of the Locals or one-third of the members. Such polls shall be advisory and not binding.

Article XIV. Amendments
These Bylaws may be amended at a National Convention by a three-fifths vote of the delegates voting and present provided that written notice of such amendments has been given to members one month prior to the Convention. The Bylaws may also be amended by majority at a National Convention if the amendments in question have been discussed at an NPC meeting at least three months prior to the Convention.
