CONSTITUTION

Section 5.
A quorum of the NPC shall be more than half of its members. The NPC shall assume office immediately upon its election to serve a two-year term or until its successors are elected.

Section 6.
Meetings of the NPC shall be open to all members of the organization. However, the NPC may hold executive sessions if 60% of its members vote to do so in order to discuss personnel and related financial matters.

Section 7.
An NPC member may be removed for malfeasance or nonfeasance by a two-thirds vote of the NPC, with nonfeasance defined to include unexcused absences from two or more consecutive meetings.

Section 8.
The NPC shall be responsible for hiring and discharging staff as necessary.

Article IX. National Advisory Committee
Section 1.
Members of the National Advisory Committee shall be available to consult with the NPC and the officers of the organization. It shall, however, have no decision- making authority.

Section 2.
Members of the National Advisory Committee shall be chosen by the NPC and must be members of the Democratic Socialists of America. In electing members to the NAC, the NPC shall act so as to ensure fair representation of women, genderqueers, and minorities.

Article X. Commissions
Section 1.
Commissions may be chartered by the NPC as prescribed in the Bylaws.

Section 2.
Requirements for membership and for the election of leadership of each Commission shall be determined by the NPC.

Article XI. Dissolution
In the event of the dissolution of the Democratic Socialists of America, all remaining funds and assets are to be released to such other organizations that are organized exclusively for the promotion of social welfare and that will operate to further the common good and general welfare of the community.

Article XII. Parliamentary Authority
The rules contained in the current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order Newly Revised shall govern the organization in all cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with this Constitution or the Bylaws or standing rules of the organization.

Article XIII. Amendments
This Constitution may be amended at a National Convention by a two-thirds vote of the delegates voting and present provided that written notice of such amendments has been given to members one month prior to the Convention.
